[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
How many of us
are dragging through
the days of our lives
because we can't kick our
brains into gear, at least
not without a cup of
joe or an energy drink?
And if it seems like it's
becoming more and more
difficult to focus with
the distractions around us,
well, you are not alone.
Good news-- there
are new technologies
on the horizon that promise
to shape our brains back
up non-invasively.
And today we're talking about
an incredible technology
with Dr. Lana Morrow,
the inventor of Think!,
with an exclamation point.
Welcome, Lana.
>>LANA MORROW: Thank
you for having me.
>>REGINA: What's
so fun about this--
>>MORROW: It's a pleasure.
>>REGINA: --is since I
first found out about you
and started researching
some of your works,
I had a chance to fly to New
York and then experience Think!
I can't imagine having
this conversation--
not easily-- without having
actually experienced--
>>MORROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: --the technology.
So first of all, we want to
know a little bit about you,
like who's Dr. Morrow here.
So as a neuroscientist
and a neuropsychologist,
you started seeing
that there was
a necessity for a new
kind of technology
that you ultimately invented.
But let's talk about your
background as a neuroscientist,
as a neuropsychologist.
What is neuropsychology even?
>>MORROW: So I
started rather young.
And I was always attracted
to neuroscience, in general,
knowing more at a time
that neuroscience was not
a popular field yet.
>>REGINA: And they didn't have
beautiful blonde women in it.
[LAUGHTER]
>>MORROW: You're so sweet.
Thank you.
Yes, it was a male field.
And today as well, I
think in neurotechnology,
we don't have too
many women leading,
being CEOs in neurotech
companies and inventors.
I think I might be the only
one for the moment doing
what I've done.
So going back to
what my start was,
I've studied neuroscience
very early on in Rome
and was interested in flow
of dopamine in general.
>>REGINA: The flow of dopamine.
>>MORROW: Dopamine.
>>REGINA: OK now, before we go
any further, you have to stop
and say look, tell us what
dopamine is responsible for
and why this is such a big deal.
>>MORROW: So dopamine is
responsible for attentiveness,
executive function,
memory, sleep.
It's one of the most important
neurotransmitters in the brain.
And dopamine promotes
the communication
between nerve cells.
>>REGINA: This is
really important.
>>MORROW: So neuron to
neuron communication,
and the speed of communication
between those neurons that
determines our
alertness, and planning,
and executive
functioning, memory--
all what I said before.
That's largely response--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>REGINA: So we're in a world
right now that is essentially
tanking our dopamine, or
jacking it up artificially.
>>MORROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: What is
the net effect?
Cause you've seen a
lot, a lot of clients.
What are you finding the
effects of the way we're
living right now,
the distractions
and having a lot of
consumption of energy drinks,
and so forth, and just
running, running, running.
What is that doing to
our dopamine levels,
and how is that
affecting our lives?
>>MORROW: You see
the lack of dopamine
in people who are stressed out.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MORROW: And
generally we can say
that the majority of American
population is stressed out.
We work around the clock.
And we don't take
enough time to take
good care of our
relaxation, replenishing
our sleep, all of that which
replenishes and restores
the dopamine.
So I would say
that in people who
have large amounts
of stress, dopamine
goes into lower levels.
And it doesn't help that we
have all these devices that
train us to think
in milliseconds
and don't sustain--
>>REGINA: It does not.
OK, let's talk about
a personality--
like, for example, let's
look at classic burnout.
We go to like some of
the films from the 2000s,
and even 1990s,
like "Wolf on Wall
Street," these guys
that are up, they're
very intensely dialed in.
Everything's at stake that day.
The bell goes off at whatever
time Wall Street bell goes off.
What is that, 8:00 in the
morning, or something?
And boom, you're on.
It's an adrenaline
rush the whole day.
>>MORROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: So this would
be a very extreme example
of what happens.
Those are oftentimes
early burnouts, right?
>>MORROW: Yes.
Yes, because you
have a situation
where the amygdala goes
into fight or flight mode
all the time.
So you know, we're programmed
to have available to us
this surplus of adrenaline or
noradrenaline when we need it.
But if you put it on
override for a long time,
then you burn out
the entire system.
It's not in homeostasis anymore.
>>REGINA: Right.
And these are people that are
in very extreme professions.
But what about just
your super-uber mom?
Where you have to get
the kids to school,
then you got to go to the gym?
And this is kind of permeating
all of American life.
>>MORROW: Yes, yes, right.
Children nowadays, as well,
are stressed out from the time
they're about five or six
because of the pressure
that either the society
imposes on them from sports
and the activities--
>>REGINA: In school.
>>MORROW: Scholastic activities.
And then also they are exposed
to different iPads and iPhones.
So their reaction times and
their times of sustained
attention are shortened.
They're not naturally
reinforced to stay
on task for a long time.
They're reinforced to stay
on task for milliseconds
or seconds, which trains
their brain for short memory
or for shortened amount
of attention span.
And they're not primed
like we were before.
When we were growing
up, I think we
were spending a lot of time in
nature, and climbing on trees,
or, you know, playing with
a ball, playing hopscotch.
Those are all things that I
think our children have not
had the chance to really
experience to the degree
that we have.
>>REGINA: And dopamine
then must be very reliant
on these very natural cycles of
life and nature itself, then.
>>MORROW: Indeed, yes.
>>REGINA: And so when we've
removed ourselves from nature,
just that alone.
>>MORROW: And I think the sheer
amount of joy and pleasure
decreases.
You know, Harvard
School talks about
dopamine being the happiness
hormone, hormone of happiness,
joy.
And I think it's very
important to keep that element
in what we say, the high vibe.
>>REGINA: Yeah, absolutely.
>>MORROW: In a higher
level of frequencies.
So we're joyful.
You know, as pedestrian
as it sounds,
when you do a lot of
sports, when you engage
in a lot of sports, or
when you have a pet,
your happiness levels rise and
your stress levels decrease.
There are numerous
studies on that influence
of sports on your level
of lessening the stress.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
OK, so let's talk
about video games
and these little kids who
are not going into nature
and are spending a lot of time
shortening their attention
span.
But the neural wiring,
the neural network
and the effect on it
long term that you think
is-- what you're starting to
see in people now as a result
of having too much screen time.
From a scientific
brain neural network.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>MORROW: Well,
it's rather simple.
You don't have to
be a neuroscientist
to understand that.
You get reinforced.
If you have an Instagram
account and you get a like,
your dopamine level goes up
because it's a reinforcement.
Like a Pavlovian bell, you know,
when Pavlov trained the dogs.
The dog would salivate when
he would see the steak.
And then if he would see
the reward associated
with the belt, then the sound
of the bell made him salivate.
Well, we don't salivate, but
we are yearning for our click
on like or our
heart on Instagram,
or you know, anything that
makes us feel like we have been
wanted or acknowledged somehow.
>>REGINA: Yes, that's true.
>>MORROW: And I think
that in the video games,
points that children
earn on the jump--
and they're frequent.
They're, I think, maybe 50
a second or 10 a second--
I don't know really the rate of
reinforcement in the video game
specifically.
But oftentimes they can
be at least 20 per second,
you know, very rapidly firing.
>>REGINA: So very pleasurable.
>>MORROW: Pleasure-inducing,
or reward-inducing.
I don't know whether
it's pleasure really.
>>REGINA: But reward-inducing.
>>MORROW: Reward-inducing
at that time.
Sustained pleasure
is a different thing
from being reinforced to
feel OK, I got a point.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah, that's
a big differentiation.
>>MORROW: You know, you can have
mixture of attention, tension,
reinforcement by the
millisecond, or by the second,
half a second in those games.
And the result is that you
crave that all the time.
That your inner pump
of dopamine is not
activated on your
own natural cycles.
So your brain is yearning
for an outside stimulus
in order to produce dopamine.
>>REGINA: I'm really
concerned about this.
I'm really concerned
about the generations--
>>MORROW: It's an
epidemic in the world.
>>REGINA: It is epidemic.
>>MORROW: Not only in America.
>>REGINA: So what does life look
like if people continue gaming?
What could potentially happen
with a generation of people
whose brains have been wired
for this kind of fast reward?
>>MORROW: Well, they
create then their own world
of that reality, which is,
if you abstain from judgment,
it can be viewed as
just another world.
>>REGINA: Yeah, no, I want to
see what does it look like?
>>MORROW: Another world.
I mean, maybe sci-fi we saw
the films "Tron" or "Matrix."
You see certain things that
happen in that environment.
It's not far from reality,
I think-- potential reality.
We're still not
luckily into that yet.
But the brain gets rewired
in a very specific way
for short bursts
of reinforcements
and thinks also differently,
thinks very differently
from what our brains have been
reinforced to operate within,
in other systems.
And so I think that
these kind of children
who operate on daily
reinforcement or daily gaming,
they have a very hard
time sitting down
and reading a book.
Because in order
to read a book, you
have to have a moment that will
track the sentence on the page.
And you have to have
a sustained attention
and peace within your heart as
well to stay still and enjoy
the book.
>>REGINA: And it engages
all forms of the imagination
and the mind has to kick
in and assemble and create
pictures and create storylines.
>>MORROW: And gives you a
lot of latitude of your own,
your own sovereignty
to create your own joy
while you're reading.
You can even tangentially think
about something else, remember.
Whereas when you're immersed
in the video gaming world,
there is little margin
for exploration,
in milliseconds
even, on your own.
Because you're fully engaged,
and you're demanded to perform.
So you're in this
fight or flight
mode and performance
mode, almost
like a pilot of the airplane.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>MORROW: Of the MiG.
>>REGINA: Right, exactly.
>>MORROW: And you're
really in the hyperdrive.
And you're doing
that most of the time
because you want
to get to the point
where you have a lot of points
and you score really well.
And so you're in that
state of tension.
I've studied some of the
studies that came out
on children in
China who have been
severely seriously addicted.
And these are generally
boys whose parents
are desperate because they
play video games all the time,
and they have addiction.
So they created now camps
for the boys to go to.
And these are children
who are like 12, 15.
They have to go to these centers
for rehabilitation of the game
addiction.
>>REGINA: That's a hard one.
It's like any kind of rehab.
>>MORROW: It's like
any kind of rehab.
You just have to
unwire the brain.
The brain wires itself.
So the good news on that is
that you can change the brain.
The brain is plastic.
It's malleable.
You can actually
change the brain.
Not only can you
change it by routes,
but you can change it also
by cortical thickness.
You can do a lot with
the brain to remodel it
in a different way.
And that may mean having
to be in a washout period,
without any screen time
for maybe a month or two.
But you have to
replace it with equally
pleasurable and rewarding
new world, new activities.
And usually it's this
wonderful interaction
with human or
animal interactions
that are rewarding.
And once the brain
gets used to that,
your mind enjoys it
much more, and it
becomes more adapted to that.
>>REGINA: Thank you for
explaining that for everybody
out there who's in
their own way trying
to contend with it with either
their kids, or their grandkids,
or their husbands, you know.
So this is an important topic
that's not to be ignored.
And that gets us
back to dopamine.
>>MORROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK, so you were
working with dopamine
as a neuroscientist, and let's
talk about how you ended up
going into this technology.
>>MORROW: So for a while
I was working at Mt.
Sinai doing research in
brain mapping and dopamine.
After a while then, I
rerouted my own trajectory,
my own career, into
neuropsychology.
So it's basically
pencil and paper tasks
and testing young
children and adults
for ADHD problems, any
problems involving memory,
frontal lobes, planning,
executive functioning,
learning, dyslexia.
And that led me
to see that there
is a population within
especially young children who
can't take stimulants.
Their parents don't want
them to be on medication,
but also they had heart issues.
If you have a heart issue--
>>REGINA: Kids?
>>MORROW: The kids who were
born with some heart issue.
>>REGINA: Oh, I see.
OK.
>>MORROW: They can't
take stimulants.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>MORROW: I had three
clients like that,
and the parents
asked me explicitly
if I could be helpful
at some levels
to really create something that
could be helping them get out
of their ADHD mode and
increase their attention,
increase their short-term
memory, working memory.
And so I set up to
devise first some games--
ocular motor tracking games
and some other video games.
>>REGINA: Ocular motor
tracking games, OK.
>>MORROW: Yes, just for the
psychotic movement tracking.
Very simple.
But they were still video games.
They were still on the screen.
Because it's very effective,
and you can measure it down
to a millisecond.
See, that's the beauty
of these new devices--
>>REGINA: Oh, yes.
We're going to talk about that.
>>MORROW: --is that when it--
I prefer to work with everything
that is extremely technical.
So MRI, fMRI, DTI, EEG--
everything is
electrophysiological
and derived--
computer-linked in a way.
I don't really subscribe
to artificial intelligence.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>REGINA: Artificial
intelligence, yeah.
>>MORROW: --artificial
intelligence.
I much prefer the field
of natural intelligence.
>>REGINA: Yes, I'm with you.
>>MORROW: Enabling
the brain to do
what it does best,
to heal itself
or to prime itself
for peak performance.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MORROW: And that can be done
with the help of technology,
but you have to have
training with something.
And then you have
your own sovereignty
over your own brain.
And there's a lot that we
can do with our own minds.
>>REGINA: Now at the
same time that you
were doing your various
studies and working
with clinical patients
and such, there
were the development of various
neuromodulating, neurofeedback
technologies that
were out there.
And I was having fun with one
called Brain State Technologies
probably now about 13 years ago.
And it was wonderful,
but it was kind of bulky.
>>MORROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: You had to spend
long periods of time in it.
The technician had to
really have the ability
to interpret and analyze
as you were going.
And you know, it was just--
>>MORROW: It was
not plug and play.
>>REGINA: It was
So let's talk about how you got
to a more plug and play model.
You created this
entirely new electrode,
which is really
key to what you do
and the brilliance
of this technology.
So now going from working
with these clients
into developing the
technology and the electrodes,
let's talk about that.
>>MORROW: So there
was a need for that.
Because in order to save
time, the technician, who
sits in front of a patient
and applies the head--
>>REGINA: Electrodes.
>>MORROW: Electrodes.
They're usually called the
caps, the electrode caps.
Siegen is one of the
companies that makes them.
And I spent three
years doing it.
I really promised myself one day
I would make something simpler
than that.
Because you know,
you spend an hour
placing this on
a patient's head,
and then it's not
even that reliable.
The gel dries out, and
the signal is not strong.
>>REGINA: Well, and
you're placing them
at all the different
areas of the brain, right?
>>MORROW: Yes, you do, yeah.
And so I made an electrode
that has a specific alloy.
And I work with
Honeywell Robotics, which
is a spacecraft
engineering company,
and they're very precise.
And the trick, as with
everything that works,
is to be precise, to be
exact, and to use technology
that is available
that you can combine
with some additional
information that you create,
and creating exact devices,
precise, high-precision
devices.
So our device has been created.
These electrodes conduct much
faster and much more reliably.
Signal to noise ratio is much
better signal to noise ratio.
>>REGINA: And it's
only two electrodes
that are placed right here.
>>MORROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>MORROW: It's four, actually,
four electrodes in this case.
And what is Think!?
Think! is the device
that contains these--
It's a strip, a simple strip.
>>REGINA: It's like a headband.
>>MORROW: You put
it on the head.
>>REGINA: Just put it
on like a headband.
Yeah.
>>MORROW: And it takes one
second to put it on the head.
And it picks up reliably
and with verified
signal the signal and the
brain waves from your head
and logs it into the
computer in front of you.
So you sit with this headband
in front of the laptop.
And you play via thought
only, you play video games.
>>REGINA: Wirelessly
via thought only, yeah.
I just want to back
up for one moment
because then we're going
to go right into the game.
Besides the
technological expertise
you had, there was a
lot of inspiration kind
of pouring in at that
time in your life
into the development
of these incredibly
sensitive electrodes.
>>MORROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: You have things
there that nobody else thought
to have before.
>>MORROW: Yes, yeah.
I think we all get inspired.
You know, Einstein
would say that he
would get inspired in a shower.
Or anybody who thinks any
research, my colleagues,
you know, my teammates who
are incredibly smart, we all
get inspired--
you probably too for your book.
You know, you don't
know when it'll hit you.
But maybe when you're
picking flowers in a field.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>MORROW: Or riding your
bike, or you know, in a shower
somewhere, singing a song along.
Oh, something happens and
you just have this thought.
>>REGINA: And you had quite
a bit of help that way.
>>MORROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: You know, it
was really pouring in.
>>MORROW: I did.
>>REGINA: And
starting to prove out.
>>MORROW: I get information,
what we call the downloads.
>>REGINA: Yes, the downloads.
>>MORROW: But also
I meditated on it.
So I trained myself--
>>REGINA: And then
you meditated.
>>MORROW: --to sit quietly
at least twice a day.
I'm Vedic meditator,
so I sit quietly
twice a day for 20 minutes--
nothing exotic,
just very normal,
sitting quietly and
collecting our thoughts, which
our grandparents used to do.
They would always take a
little siesta after lunch.
And in the morning, they
would read their newspaper
or sip a cup of coffee,
just do a little nothing
for 10 minutes, 15 minutes.
>>REGINA: So important.
>>MORROW: So important to center
yourself before the day begins.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And gather yourself.
>>MORROW: Gather yourself.
>>REGINA: Gather yourself
back from dreamtime.
Set your intention, what you
plan on doing for the day,
and consolidating.
>>MORROW: And simply
setting your mind
on some ideas that you
want to put forward.
You would be surprised
how much more at ease
you become then recognizing--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>REGINA: Then just rushing,
slamming into the day.
>>MORROW: Exactly.
Because you don't stop to think
or to listen to your higher
self or to your gut feeling.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MORROW: And if
you train yourself
to listen to your gut
feeling or your higher self,
then your ideas come in.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And so you had quite a
bit of that going on.
And I love-- lots
of inspiration,
including your necklace here.
[LAUGHTER]
Before we came on, they
were looking at it, saying--
>>MORROW: This is
an artist from Rome.
>>REGINA: --what is--
what's that necklace?
>>MORROW: An art piece.
>>REGINA: It's an art piece,
but those are dendrites.
>>MORROW: Those
are dendrites, yes.
This is our kind of quirky
way of making a statement when
you're a scientist.
>>REGINA: I love it.
>>MORROW: This is
my little trademark.
>>REGINA: So that was just
one of your creative insights
that were pouring
in at this time.
So now you've created
these electrodes.
You've created
this wireless game
where your thoughts are working
with your own technologies,
and you have a few
different programs.
But the reason we talk
so much about dopamine
is because boosting
dopamine naturally--
is that the most prominent
program that you use of them?
>>MORROW: Yes, yes.
Because it really
regulates the vagus nerve,
and it regulates the dopamine
and seratonin, and balances
dopamine and seratonin
in the brain.
So for example,
people who have ADHD--
and we have studied it,
we have double blind study
we have just completed.
>>REGINA: The study you
did out of Barcelona?
>>MORROW: Out of Barcelona.
But it was designed
between the scientists
at Columbia Presbyterian,
Columbia University, NYU, Mt.
Sinai, all of them
based in New York.
And then the reason we
ended up in Barcelona
is because of the cost.
>>REGINA: Because it's
millions to conduct it here.
>>MORROW: It was much
less costly to create
a study in Barcelona
than in New York City.
>>REGINA: So let's talk about
the study and what you found.
Because it's pretty stunning.
>>MORROW: Yeah, it's wonderful.
I mean, the team of many,
many neuroscientists.
Altogether on this
project of 11 years,
we have been more than
450 of us working on it.
And de facto scientists that
are on the headline of the paper
that we're about to
publish now were 13 of us.
And these are all
leaders of their teams.
And all of them have
one connection, which
is we all understand dopamine--
dopamine and neurotransmission.
>>REGINA: And now this study
was based on Think! technology
and ADHD kids.
>>MORROW: ADHD children.
Well, some are young
adults because some are 18,
and in Europe, 18 you
qualify as an adult.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>MORROW: But 6 to
18, 62 children.
Then we ended up with just a
cohort of about 42, 21 and 21
children in placebo
and experimental group.
And we ran them through--
it's a double blind.
So it was very rigorously
created, designed
and performed.
And in Barcelona, we
finally performed the study
in a very rigorous environment.
And these children
underwent numerous tests--
psychological, psychiatric,
neuropsychological, an EEG test
continually before, during, and
after electroencephalographic
recordings in real time.
And fMRIs and MRIs--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>REGINA: So it
was a legit test--
>>MORROW: Very legitimate, yes.
>>REGINA: From
every angle looking
at the brain and
the improvement.
>>MORROW: --with top
level institutions.
>>REGINA: So what
were the results?
>>MORROW: So the results which
we were hoping for, where
that there is neuroplasticity.
That if you train noninvasively,
nothing goes in your head.
You're managing the brain with
your own thought, via thought
only.
You end up with
this trajectory that
is carved in the brain
that is different from what
we've started with.
So this placebo
group participants
had none of those new signs.
But the experimental
group participants
showed new activation
of new pathways.
And so this was very
significant for us
because it's a new technology.
And it took only six weeks
for this to produce itself.
And the children
elevated their mood.
They were much less
aggressive, much calmer.
They were focused.
Their working memory increased--
even long-term memory
on some memory tests.
Their scholastic
performance increased.
And they were really
performing overall much better.
What we found out that
was not expected--
we were really shocked.
We had to repeat the test
with different laboratories
many times.
We found out that the
cortical thickness
with this noninvasive
Think! training
increased in the frontal
areas of the brain
and dorsal lateral
areas of brain that
are used when we are
engaging in focused activity,
in memory, and in planning.
They increased in thickness
by significant amount.
>>REGINA: That means
you're regrowing.
>>MORROW: You're
creating new cells.
>>REGINA: You're
creating new brain cells.
>>MORROW: You create new mass.
So we have to--
>>REGINA: Regrowing the brain.
>>MORROW: Growing your
mass, yes, via thought.
So we just have to, in order
to really totally prove
all of that, the
second part, we have
the fact that there is a
cortical thickness that
has increased.
>>REGINA: Yes, yes.
>>MORROW: That's the fact.
There is measurable--
>>REGINA: Producing
new brain cells.
>>MORROW: Yes.
So now in order to claim that
this is really a new brain
cell, we're running
a new study now
that is tied into genetics
and with CAT scans,
so that we can actually de
facto say these are true cells.
We think they are because
they're in those area that
are operating in cortex.
So cortex is rich in neurons.
And a specific area, this
cortical area for dopamine
function, we think--
we believe these
are dopamine-producing cells.
>>REGINA: OK, so this is right
now in this distracted world,
this rushed stressed out
world, this is really critical
that we begin producing
our own dopamine again.
And then starting behaviorally
to modify our lives so that we
can continue doing that
even after exposure
to such a lovely technology.
So now you're finding--
you've had many, many
clients through the years.
And you're finding
that Think seems
to work in almost inexplicable
ways on a wide variety
of conditions.
And one of them is autism.
And you then shared
with me a video
of a young man who
came in, you took
a little bit of film of
him when he first arrived.
Your heart goes out
to the guy, you know.
He's about 15 years old, right?
>>MORROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: And then
you took one after.
And it was shocking,
to me, it was
shocking to see the
difference in his personality
and behavior.
So he played the
dopamine boosting game.
>>MORROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK, and
so standard-- they
have to do sessions
which are really short.
>>MORROW: 2 and 1/2 minutes.
>>REGINA: 2 and 1/2 minutes.
It's a short session.
>>MORROW: Five times around.
>>REGINA: Five times around.
And you do that 20
or 30 times all told?
>>MORROW: So we
recommend 20 times
because we see the results
that are almost permanent.
And you experienced
these yourself
so you can testify to that but.
We have the medical data that
showed that after 20 minutes,
the pathway is consolidated and
cortical thickness increases.
>>REGINA: After 20 sessions.
>>MORROW: After 20 sessions.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>MORROW: The videos
that you saw were exactly
after the fourth meeting.
So he already had four
meetings with me before.
And in that meeting, you
saw before the training
and after the training.
>>REGINA: You know what?
We're going to go ahead
and roll that film.
OK?
I want everybody to see this
dramatic change in the boy.
So let's take a look at that.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- And what has
happened in school?
- I didn't go to school today.
- Do anything at school?
Oh, you didn't go
to school today.
But how was it studying, or
since last time you were here?
Did you feel good?
Did you feel focused?
- Yeah.
Focused.
- And what else?
- [INAUDIBLE]
- How is his
cooperation at home?
- He's helping out more.
- Wonderful.
Congratulations.
- Helping me with
taking out the garbage,
taking in the groceries.
I have a bad back.
- Excellent, good job.
- Yeah, he's been
very, very helpful
and doing things
for me, not having--
- It was great.
- What did you like about it?
- Oh, it was just relaxing.
And it was just not
stressful or anything.
it's just calmness and
many kinds of other stuff.
- And I think that you
have noticed that you're
able to be more focused?
- Mm-hmm.
- And do you like being
more thoughtful about it?
How does it feel?
- Great.
- Feels good?
OK.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>REGINA: I mean,
when I saw that video,
it really struck me because
of the suffering that
was going on.
I mean, just covering his
head, and the suffering
going on inside him--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>REGINA: --before and after.
Him being this graceful
young man at the end.
>>MORROW: Because that's
what he is inside himself.
>>REGINA: That's who he is.
>>MORROW: He is truly
graceful and beautiful.
And now his grades went
to really high level--
I think, fours and fives
out of like, B's and A's.
And he had a very hard
time transitioning
like many autistic children do.
So when you
transition, you can get
really upset and expressing--
because of lack of language.
You tend to express
then your anger
or upset through screaming
or motions of the body.
And he had to have
parents or assistant
teachers, shadow
teachers, accompany him
into the classroom.
And it was not easy.
And now his life is easy.
And that's what I live for.
This is where, you know,
the beauty of the work.
We all have to
light each other up.
[LAUGHTER]
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>REGINA: I know
that is your passion.
I know it is.
>>MORROW: Everyday of my life.
>>REGINA: We're going to
talk about a few more things.
I mean, when you talk about
my own experience with it.
Something I discovered that
was just so key for all of us--
for me and for all of us.
But I had a friend who had
Parkinson's-- in his case,
it appears--
he was a high profile person.
Appears he had some polonium
poisoning in Russia.
And it was showing up as
Parkinson's symptoms, OK?
He did the other brain
training I told you about.
Because his speech
was kind of slurred.
He wasn't walking very well.
And after just a short
number of sessions,
he was in tears saying, I
thought my son would never
know me, who I really am.
Now you've dealt
with Parkinson's.
>>MORROW: I did,
many times, yeah.
>>REGINA: Many times.
Let's talk about
Parkinson's disease.
>>MORROW: And that's actually
how I came to this country.
I was invited by Melvin
Yahr, Professor Yahr at Mt.
Sinai, who is the
father of those scales,
Parkinson's scales.
He was one of the most
preeminent authorities
on Parkinson.
And my grad dissertation was
actually on L-dopa/carbidopa.
>>REGINA: What's that?
Say that so we
can understand it.
What it is?
>>MORROW: It is a
classical drug that you
give to Parkinson patients.
It's called Sinemet.
>>REGINA: Oh OK, gotcha.
>>MORROW: And it's composed of
levodopa and carbidopa, which
makes your brain then
release dopamine.
>>REGINA: Dopamine, OK.
>>MORROW: Through
the medication.
>>REGINA: So that's medication.
>>MORROW: So I studied that
for a while as manifested--
as evidenced on
evoked potentials,
visual evoked potentials
in brain mapping.
Electrophysiology, that
was how I came here.
So I dealt with Parkinson's
patients for about four years
at that time before
delving into ADHD.
And this time-- so I know
when to spot the Parkinson.
I understand the pathology.
And when I trained three
of them at the first time,
what was evident--
to my shock, and to
my colleagues' shock--
we did not expect
this kind of result.
After one training only, their
initiation of the movement,
their gait, their
movement of the legs,
their pivoting in space,
and their fluidity of motion
increased, and tremor
decreased immediately.
>>REGINA: Immediately.
>>MORROW: After 30 minutes.
So that means that is why
we know that it is dopamine.
Partially, that's one of
the reasons why we know.
Because these
Parkinson's patients
after 30 minutes of training,
and not having tremor--
and we can show
the video on that.
>>REGINA: So we have a video
of an elderly gentleman, right,
who had Parkinson's.
And so we'll look at
the before and after.
But tell us beforehand
how long had he
been engaging-- how many
sessions had he already had?
>>MORROW: That was after about
six sessions, that video.
And that specific
video shows him--
>>REGINA: What are we looking
for when we watch the video?
>>MORROW: Looking for
a tremor in his end.
OK, especially in this gentleman
because he was a pianist.
So he lost the capacity
to play the piano.
And after we
finished 20 sessions,
he was able to go back
to play the piano.
So he was very happy.
>>REGINA: OK, let's take
a look at this video.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Oh, beautiful.
OK.
Come this way.
Oh, wonderful.
Thank you.
[END PLAYBACK]
- Did it have a permanent
effect with him?
>>MORROW: Yeah, yeah.
>>REGINA: Is he still
playing the piano?
Is he--
>>MORROW: Well, he's still
playing the piano but it's--
again, when you have
a progressive disease,
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MORROW: Think! is not
by any means cure it all.
>>REGINA: Right.
It just elevates your dopamine.
And that's some specific thing.
So how's his body and
life responding now so,
after the fact?
>>MORROW: The Parkinson will
still take its own trajectory,
but it's slowed
down a little bit.
So I have another gentleman who
is a very straightforward Wall
Streeter, intellectual.
And not very open
to really believing
that this could be something
that he could be helped with.
Well, he just sent
me a text recently.
He did only four sessions.
>>REGINA: What
was his condition?
Parkinson's?
>>MORROW: Parkinson's as well.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MORROW: This was a man
who was running marathons
and triathlons, and
high level, high profile
CEO, very educated, very sharp.
And whose brother is a
prominent neuroscientist.
So they both had
numerous discussions
with me really trying to
understand how it could happen.
What happened with this
gentleman, he had a training
and immediately noticed a
decrease in tremor and increase
in mobility.
But also his mood
improved immediately.
And he was not as sad.
He reported immediately
after training
that his typing on the
computer was faster.
And so just recently-- this is
three months after we trained--
he said, could it be that
the effect is staying
with me because I ran so many
miles, much faster than I've
ever run in a long, long time--
>>REGINA: Wow.
>>MORROW: --in many years.
And this was
already three months
after the small
training, short time.
>>REGINA: That's amazing.
>>MORROW: He only had like
six session, so not a lot.
>>REGINA: I really
had had to steer away
from the whole notion
of quick fixes,
and miracle cures and
all that in my own work.
Because so often something
sticks around for a while,
then it doesn't last.
It works for some people, and it
doesn't work for other people.
So I mean, Think!
obviously is profound
in its nature.
But are there some
people who it just
doesn't work with, who just
don't get any results at all?
>>MORROW: Well, we have to--
it's very effective.
Because it's a quantum
mechanics tool but not
in New Agey terminology.
Literally we work with
physicists, plasma physicists,
physicists who understand
quantum mechanics,
and engineers who work for NASA.
So it's just a real
high tech tool,
the way that MRI machine is.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>MORROW: You know, we accept
that because at this point
we're used to MRI machines.
I would compare it
to LASIK surgery.
If you take LASIK and you say, I
can fix your eye in about what?
One millisecond?
It takes literally one
millisecond with LASIK surgery.
That's type of
the effect it has.
It has maybe not in
milliseconds, but a series
of short burst administrations,
it really works profoundly.
And it has profound
results on your--
>>REGINA: But are
there some people
who say, nope,
don't feel a thing,
felt just like I did before.
>>MORROW: Yes, of course.
>>REGINA: And that has also
to do with the mindset,
we understand.
>>MORROW: A little
bit with the mindset.
>>REGINA: Expectation, maybe.
>>MORROW: But even
those naysayers--
I just got a text yesterday
from a woman whose husband I
trained, and I trained her.
Both of them said, oh no,
we didn't feel anything.
You know, they're
really established,
sports-driven people.
People who already get their
dopamine fix through sports,
they tend to feel--
>>REGINA: So they're already
at a pretty good level.
>>MORROW: They are, yes.
But he has some issues that
he wanted me to address.
So he is now--
she texted me very
enthusiastically
saying that she only
had one session,
but that she after seven
days still feels the effect,
and she is really
feeling much better.
So obviously her
lack of dopamine
was a little more pronounced.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>MORROW: He felt
better, but he is
a man established in his own
ways, and he is in his 60s.
And really was not
terribly open to the idea.
But having seen his wife
change the trajectory
so quickly and so
effectively, he
is now really going
to speak with me again
to discuss the
science behind it.
And we have very solid
>>REGINA: No, you do, you do.
And it's anecdotal.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
It's like, I liked it, I
didn't like it, I felt it,
or I didn't feel
it, and so forth.
So I want to talk about
what happened when I came.
Because I thought, you know, I
want to know more about this.
And we were going to
do this interview.
I want to it for
myself what it's like.
So I flew to New York, and I did
a total of, I think, 11 or 12--
>>MORROW: 12, yeah.
>>REGINA: --sessions.
Something like that, so not
quite all the way through,
but good enough.
And the thing that
fascinated me about it
was that you could see
not just your mind,
but your emotions in real time.
Just a subtle shift in emotions,
a subtle shift in thought.
So the game I was playing
requires you-- it's so cute.
It's just cute.
>>MORROW: The Gates.
>>REGINA: You have a little
skier going through the gates,
right, bringing the gates
together with their mind.
And so having been a skier
for my whole life, actually.
>>MORROW: Yes,
you're a pro skier.
>>REGINA: So it was
really easy for me,
you know, to think in that way.
But as I start going through it
first, you know, I'm looking,
I want results.
You know, you're
a little anxious.
You don't know what's
going to happen.
And when you bring
the gates together,
you get that neural
feedback reinforcement,
with that little sound.
Little sound.
>>MORROW: Little sound.
And a gentle sound.
>>REGINA: A gentle,
little sound.
And these little
gates come together.
And when they really
line up, there's
a circle between
them that's formed.
And you kind of
just sail through.
>>MORROW: In the
zone, in the flow.
>>REGINA: In the zone.
And I found that in the
beginning when I was playing
it, I was trying too hard.
And I was having a harder
time getting things
where I wanted to-- come on,
why aren't they coming together?
And then all of a
sudden, there was a point
fairly early on for
me, which is lucky,
that I went into the
moment and I thought,
I just want to have fun.
And I went into this day--
>>MORROW: With ease and grace.
>>REGINA: With ease and grace.
And I kept saying that to
myself, ease and grace.
And I imagined that I was almost
like on a toboggan or something
where I was leaning back, and I
was just going and saying yes.
And I just found myself
reaching out wanting to tap
the gates as I went through.
>>MORROW: Fun.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>REGINA: Fun, fun, fun.
And this joy started
rising Inside me.
And as I did that, it was
hard for it not to work.
Everything started lining up.
The gates came together.
And it's like, wow,
this is so cool.
But I was in a state of
coherent joy in myself.
And I watched the
coherence in my brain.
And then I'd stop
and think, oh my god,
how come this is happening.
Boom, the gates go apart again.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>REGINA: Went
out of the moment.
And as soon as I had a thought,
the gates were apart again.
It's like, hold on a minute.
Cut me a little slack here.
You know, I just got in.
I worked hard, and I go back.
And I found in the subsequent
sessions, over and over--
it's an interesting flow.
Because I was only
there a short time.
So we're doing two a
days, even three a day.
>>MORROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: At that time.
So my brain would get fatigued.
But I could stay kind of in
the, zone but I just get tired.
>>MORROW: Yes.
It builds the mental resilience
>>REGINA: It
definitely does nicely.
And so when it was all
over I felt this sense of,
on one level, my brain's
worked really hard.
But one thing-- one of my
bugaboos in life is patience.
And I hate being late, I
hate being late for anything.
And I had to go to the airport.
And there was a
traffic jam on one
of your main boulevards
leading to LaGuardia.
Normally that kind of thing,
I'm kind of, you know,
my blood's rising.
I'm looking at my--
hey, what do you think?
How long do you think
this traffic jam--
to the driver, how long is
it going to last, right?
And I found it was like, I'm
going to be there in time,
no problem.
>>MORROW: You learn to let go.
It conditions you to let go.
>>REGINA: Yes, everything
just became more coherent.
>>MORROW: Coherent.
>>REGINA: And more--
>>MORROW: In the flow.
>>REGINA: Peaceful.
So I thought, yes,
joy is coherence.
You know when everyone
says, oh, you know,
just find your bliss
and everything.
It took a different meaning,
because I'm scientifically
watching it in real time.
>>MORROW: Because the
electrodes pick up your activity
and log it into the
computer at real time.
So it's like running
high definition Netflix
movie from your head.
>>REGINA: From your brain.
>>MORROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: It's amazing.
>>MORROW: From your mind.
Yeah.
And it logs it at a speed of
2,048 cycles per second, which
is super fast, which means
that it reacts to your changes
in the brain and mine very fast.
>>REGINA: And emotion.
>>MORROW: And emotion.
But your emotion is--
so if you have a
lot of dopamine,
let's say when you're in
love or you hug your child,
you have a lot of dopamine.
You're happy.
You elicit that emotion.
That elicits different
electrical frequency,
and your brainwaves are
different from that expression
of emotion.
Neurochemically and
electrophysiologically,
it is linked to EEG--
what to emit.
>>REGINA: Right.
OK, now cut to
three months later.
I did it one more time.
I knew you were going
to be in San Francisco.
>>MORROW: In San Francisco.
>>REGINA: Doing sessions there.
So you said, feel
free to come in
if you want to do a couple
touch-ups or just to see.
So I did it again, I think
only one or two sessions.
>>MORROW: Yes, very briefly.
>>REGINA: But when
I started the game--
and you say this is common
with almost everybody--
that when I started
playing the game,
the score was so high to start.
And in fact, when playing the
game, I said, are you sure
the game's working?
>>MORROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: Are you sure
you have it turned on?
I remember asking you that.
You said, yeah, the game's on.
It's working.
I couldn't screw
up if I wanted to
because I went into this
incredible state of--
>>MORROW: Because your
brain got trained.
>>REGINA: --coherence.
>>MORROW: Your
brain got trained.
>>REGINA: It had already built
those new neural networks.
>>MORROW: It built a pathway.
Think about it building
pathways through a jungle
or through a new forest.
And you don't like
certain pathways.
You have to close them off.
You want to create
new pathways that are
more direct, more functional.
That's what your brain did.
And it also probably created
some neocortical thickness
as well.
So your efficiency
became higher.
And it stayed with you.
>>REGINA: It did.
I mean, I was surprised
because I thought,
oh god, I have to
start over again.
But no.
>>MORROW: But isn't the proof
in your life as well that you
would not get that flustered
or dead tired regularly--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>REGINA: Yes.
During some very
challenging things--
>>MORROW: Correct.
>>REGINA: I managed to stay
in a more upright state
during things that normally
would be extraordinarily
challenging for me.
>>MORROW: Yes.
And people report-- my
research colleagues report--
well, they do now come to me
and ask me if I can train them
a little bit during
the times that they
have demanding periods.
>>REGINA: I mean, it's so smart.
I see the value.
>>MORROW: It works.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MORROW: And it creates--
you become much more efficient.
And your sleep quality becomes
better by at least 30%.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MORROW: So you
know, if they're
sick or get sleep-deprived,
they say, well,
can I get on the system
for a little while?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>MORROW: Half an hour does it.
And also some of my
colleagues and clients who
went on Bloomberg or media--
>>REGINA: Yeah, used a lot
of high profile people.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>MORROW: They would
come just before coming
onto the television.
Because it makes you a better
presenter, if you want.
It makes you
sharper and quicker,
and your language improves.
>>REGINA: Well, the seer thing.
>>MORROW: Because it's, again,
tapping into frontal lobes.
>>REGINA: Yes.
But OK, let's talk about that.
I didn't go on
that same program.
Most people go on
the dopamine program.
>>MORROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: I didn't go on
that dopamine program.
>>MORROW: Right.
We didn't go with you.
>>REGINA: Because I have
an adrenal insufficiency.
And so you don't want to--
>>MORROW: Oh, we have
to be careful with you.
>>REGINA: --jack up more
dopamine with people.
And it's a rare birth defect.
It's not a normal thing.
But you went to the one,
the amygdala program,
which is the one that
also calms and reduces
fear, the presence of fear.
>>MORROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: So besides people
that have a weird birth defect,
when do you use that?
Who do you use that program
on and to what effect?
>>MORROW: Normally we
have an array of games.
And I just use the progression.
>>REGINA: You'll
go through them.
>>MORROW: So I start with the
dopamine game, the ramp game.
And people start feeling
immediately well.
Oftentime, because of this
generally under undernourished
in dopamine population, people
feel the effect rather quickly,
really intensely.
Some children will even really
be yawning and be tired,
or fall asleep for half
an hour after the session.
Because it reflects
their lack of dopamine.
And then when you pump
them with dopamine,
or when their brain starts
making dopamine very quickly,
they immediately feel it.
And they feel a
little bit tired.
But for example, in evening,
after two hours, three hours,
they'll feel happier,
more productive.
Their sleep will be better.
And the next day,
they'll be much more
calm and efficient in their
work and schoolwork as well.
>>REGINA: But then
you would take them
in through the amygdala
program as well.
>>MORROW: Yes.
And that's the other one
which is more for sports.
>>REGINA: For training.
>>MORROW: The gates
program that they train.
And in fact, people increase
their sports productivity
and their sports performance.
>>REGINA: Well, the point.
I wanted to get to
here is our society,
in the matrix around
us and all the media,
fear is the bestseller.
Fear is addictive.
>>MORROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: And that is what
the media appeals to is fear,
starting with the news on.
And so I was seeing that as
having a real potential, even
that program in and of itself.
Like when I was
going to the airport,
normally it's like, oh, god,
I hope I'm not gonna miss--
I had no fear around that at
all, just completely chilled.
And we didn't have
a lot of extra time.
But I thought it was interesting
because you had targeted
specifically the amygdala,
which is under attack
in humanity all
day long basically.
If you're dialed in, if
you have the radio, TV,
any kind of device on.
>>MORROW: And everybody's pretty
much living in fear right now.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>MORROW: So why is yoga and
meditation now so in vogue
as well?
Because they calm you down.
They give you the sense of
peace and tranquility, joy,
and then also it enables you
to then think more freely.
Because it is a little bit-- if
you compare the brain to a ROM
mechanism of the computer, if
you're fearful all the time,
you probably allocate about
20% to 30% of your RAM memory
to fear.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>MORROW: So imagine
taking that 30%
and allocating it where
you want it to go.
For productivity,
for joy, for bliss,
for higher peak performance, or
just simply joy and happiness
and productivity.
>>REGINA: Amen.
I mean, that to me was
the greatest surprise
is to see the incredible brain
coherence that joy brought.
You know, for whatever it's
worth, as proof positive,
including going into
meditation, yoga,
whatever it is in life
that's going to bring us
that genuine sense of--
I don't mean being jacked up.
But that genuine sense of joy
is going to make our brains
function more coherently.
>>MORROW: Absolutely, yes.
>>REGINA: This just takes you
on a super fast track there.
>>MORROW: So the girl that
I was telling you about,
the 15-year-old, she
was living in fear.
She was not able
to go to school.
>>REGINA: OK, wait a minute.
This is one we have a video of.
>>MORROW: Yeah.
>>REGINA: She could not really--
>>MORROW: Go to
school or perform--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>REGINA: She couldn't
really even communicate.
>>MORROW: She needed
to present her work
in front of a classroom.
We're talking about
last year, you
know, the 8th grade and
going into high school.
And she was terrified.
So she was living in
fear most of the time.
She was fearing getting up from
her bed or getting to school.
>>REGINA: And this affected--
>>MORROW: Fearing the judgment
of her peers or the teachers.
Constantly living in fear.
Then she developed
some anger then because
of that, justifiably so.
And she would mutter
under her breath
and not really communicate
much with people around her.
Because she was intimidated.
She was really afraid.
So she was living--
you see that with everybody.
We're programmed
like that that if we
have a lot of
negative experience,
many negative experience in
life, we will live in fear.
We curl up.
We cry or we're upset
about something.
Even animals who are
afraid, they'll curl up.
>>REGINA: Shiver
and shake, yeah.
>>MORROW: All of us have
the same body language.
And what happened
with her, she turned
into-- her fears stopped.
So she turned into a happy
child, happy teenager
that was fearless.
She went to perform
in front of her--
she didn't miss a day at school.
And anytime she
needed to perform
in front of the classroom, she
was the first one to volunteer.
>>REGINA: Do we
have video on her?
>>MORROW: We have a
video of this girl.
>>REGINA: All right.
OK, let's take a
look at that one.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- My grades went from one
and twos to fours and fives,
like threes, fours, and fives.
And I'm actually a kid who wants
to go to school now instead
of staying home and
doing nothing all day,
and just not doing any work and
getting myself into trouble.
- How's the report card today?
- Fours and fives,
and it's very--
- Straightforward excellence.
- Yeah.
- How many days of
school have you missed?
- Zero.
- Zero, amazing.
It is great.
And you feel?
- I feel amazing.
I feel great.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>REGINA: Again, you know,
this is profound stuff.
And I have seen a
few others of them.
And of course, some people
may not be as marked,
and those aren't the ones
you're probably going
to take the videos of per se.
The ones who have really overt
progress are what we're seeing,
However, it's so overt that
that's why I was so excited.
I've always been excited
about brain technologies
though for many, many years.
But why I was so
excited about this.
And I saw a few others as well.
>>MORROW: Yeah, people
stop with their migraines,
or PTSD goes away.
>>REGINA: Suicidal.
>>MORROW: ADHD, suicidal.
ADHD goes away.
But it's all the same mechanism.
It's the mechanism of
the dopamine energy.
And we think it's mesence--
We know we have the data that
it is mesencephalic central part
of the brain of the dopamine.
It's very easily identifiable.
>>REGINA: This appears
to be operating.
It's almost like
the technology keeps
changing as you change when
you're playing the game.
>>MORROW: It's adapting to you.
>>REGINA: It's a smart game.
>>MORROW: Smart technology.
>>REGINA: And it will
push you further,
depending on how you're
progressing in the moment.
So it's a smart game.
>>MORROW: It's like your
private trainer that trains
you to achieve higher levels.
And if you happen
to be an Olympian,
your trainer will
really come down on you.
>>REGINA: Right, exactly.
And it does, it works
you harder and harder.
But we were talking
about this afterward
and saying, it seems like
there's something going on,
almost a potential for it
tapping in more to a unity
consciousness.
>>MORROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: Because that's
really your passion.
>>MORROW: Yes.
>>REGINA: You practice,
like you say, every day.
>>MORROW: Elevating
consciousness.
>>REGINA: Consciousness
is your thing.
>>MORROW: Dopamine, yeah.
>>REGINA: So talk
to us about that.
What is the potential
with games like these?
>>MORROW: Well, I
think that if you
have a coherence between the
heart and the mind, in general,
and you reached
certain frequencies
which are frequencies that are
associated with joy and bliss.
And so we don't have to be
monks in Bhutan or Tibet
sitting for hours forever
to reach that kind of bliss.
We daily reach it anyway
if you hug your loved one,
you hug your pet.
That's your bliss.
It lasts maybe a second
or two, but that's
your moment of bliss.
So the question is of
sustaining this moment of bliss
in constant trajectory.
And if you expand
that moment of bliss
to make it a day
of place, you know,
it's a Yes day for
the whole time.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MORROW: And we
all experience that.
We have days that
are really fantastic,
something really great
happened in our life.
We graduate.
We're in a happy mood for about
two, three days, four days.
And if you sustain that with
conscious awareness, just
the mere fact that you're
lighting up your mood
and you're raising your
awareness, it's the awareness.
You're raising your
consciousness as well
in parallel.
And if you had raised your
consciousness at that level,
you must be tapping to something
that is what in physics they
call the field--
Carl Sagan and physicists call
it the electrophysiological--
>>REGINA: So you're really--
>>MORROW: Quantum field as
well In quantum mechanics.
>>REGINA: So your
brain's ability to--
>>MORROW: Tap into the field.
>>REGINA: --to become non-local
and tap into the field
is more coherent,
is greater capacity.
>>MORROW: More
coherency brings us
higher capacity of awareness.
And then connects us in a more
aware fashion to this unity
field, which in physics, you
know, they call it the unity
field of quantum physics.
And in meditation, we call it
field of unity consciousness.
And I think the two
terms are different,
but they're the
same field, which
is this field that
is not measured
in electrochemical potential.
But it's measured
in quantum waves.
So quantum physicists have
known about this existence
of this field for now
probably 80 years.
Now, what has been researched--
and Harvard research
and Stanford Research has shown
that in Cambridge University
in England have data,
the physicists have
data that this
field is conscious
that the cosmos, the
universe is conscious.
And we're not trained
to think in those terms.
But physicists,
the mathematicians
of those high levels where they
actually really talk about it,
they have data.
They have physics
and mathematical data
and recordings on
the field responding
in conscious aware level.
So if we tap into that
higher consciousness,
we can call it our higher
self, our higher consciousness,
higher level of
awareness, whatever
you call it is
irrelevant, the beauty
of the mere fact
that you can actually
expand your potential, that you
can actually expand your mind
is priceless.
>>REGINA: It is priceless.
And we have almost no
time left, and I'm going
to ask you two quick questions.
Do people often
reflect back then
that their own
intuitive capacities
or creative capacities
start opening up.
>>MORROW: Yes,
>>REGINA: OK.
I mean, that makes sense.
>>MORROW: Better work,
they perform better.
Yeah.
And they sustain
their performance
at the higher levels.
And they become more aware.
>>REGINA: That makes sense.
>>MORROW: And they say, wow, I'm
a different person from before.
>>REGINA: OK, now this
is a weird question.
This game is already
adapting to your brain.
It's a smart game.
And as our brains start
increasing in consciousness,
tapping more into the
field, is that going
to affect the game itself?
>>MORROW: Well, the game
rises in performance
as you rise in performance,
like a smart trainer.
So obviously it has to
rise to the next level.
>>REGINA: It's
almost like, is this
going to start taking on its
own new energetic information
and such as people continue
to grow using the game, right,
and expand the capacity.
I'm just asking.
I mean--
>>MORROW: I think that it's
really directly proportionally
related to what you emit.
>>REGINA: What you
personally emit.
>>MORROW: As long
as you want to train
and the game will
adapt to itself.
It's not this entity
in and of itself.
It's really a smart program that
enables you to train yourself
for the better levels.
>>REGINA: All I can say,
Lana, we're out of time.
Thank you because I had
a wonderful experience.
>>MORROW: Thank you.
>>REGINA: And I do
want to do it again.
>>MORROW: Welcome anytime.
And thank you for having me.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
you're so welcome.
>>MORROW: It's
always a pleasure.
>>REGINA: And thank you
for dedicating your life
to understanding this and making
this available for everybody.
Because in the end, you want
to make this widely available
for a lot of people.
>>MORROW: And to heal PTSD
and ADHD across the world.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
So thank you for that.
>>MORROW: Thank you.
>>REGINA: Absolutely fascinating
experience in technology,
love it.
To learn more about Think! or
to connect with Dr. Morrow,
you can go to
thinkinterfaces.com.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."